README.md, before:

# Volunteers and Projects

#### By Todd Pangilinan

Project creating application which will track projects and volunteers.

## Technologies used:

* Ruby
* RSPEC
* Capybara
* Pry
* markdown
* Sinatra
* Postgres
* SQL


## Description:
Using Sinatra and Postgres, this Ruby-based application allows a user to manage volunteers and projects. are able to be updated, deleted, and read, demonstrating full CRUD capabilities.

## Setup/Installation Requirements

* If you don't have git installed on your machine, follow these [instructions.](https://www.learnhowtoprogram.com/introduction-to-programming/getting-started-with-intro-to-programming/git-and-github)
* Via your terminmal, navigate to the directory you want to store my files in.
* Clone my git hub directory by typing or cutting pasting: "git clone https://github.com/pangtodd/volunteers_projects.git" into your terminal
* To run this program, you must have Ruby 2.6.5 installed on your machine. If you do not, you can follow these instructions: [Mac](https://www.learnhowtoprogram.com/ruby-and-rails-part-time/getting-started-with-ruby/installing-ruby-on-mac) or [PC](https://www.learnhowtoprogram.com/ruby-and-rails-part-time/getting-started-with-ruby/installing-ruby-on-windows).
* Once you have the project downloaded, navigate to the root of the project in your terminal and type "bundle".
* you will also need Postgres installed on your machine. If you do not, you can follow these [instructions.](https://www.learnhowtoprogram.com/ruby-and-rails-part-time/getting-started-with-ruby/installing-postgres) 
* You will also need to create a local database, using the sql backup file "database_backup.sql".
* Please note, this application was built with a Mac system. You may need to make adjustments (such as creating adding/hiding your Postgres password) if using a PC.
* make sure your database matches the name of the database used in the code.
* After your database is established, type "ruby app.rb" into your terminal. This should launch Sinatra.
* on a browswer, type in "localhost:5678"

## Known Bugs

* As of 5/21/22, no known bugs.
* If you notice other mistakes or bugs, please email pang.todd@gmail.com

## License

[MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
Copyright 2022 (c) Todd Pangilinan

Commit message:

volunteer delete path passes intergration spec.

README.md, after:

# Volunteers and Projects

#### By Todd Pangilinan

An application which tracks projects and volunteers.

## Technologies used:

* Ruby
* RSPEC
* Capybara
* Pry
* markdown
* Sinatra
* Postgres
* SQL


## Description:
Using Sinatra and Postgres, this Ruby-based application allows a user to manage volunteers and projects. Both projects and volunteers are able to be updated, deleted, and read, demonstrating full CRUD capabilities. In designing this application, the following user stories were addressed:

* As a non-profit employee, I want to view, add, update and delete projects.
* As a non-profit employee, I want to view and add volunteers.
* As a non-profit employee, I want to add volunteers to a project.


## Setup/Installation Requirements

* If you don't have git installed on your machine, follow these [instructions.](https://www.learnhowtoprogram.com/introduction-to-programming/getting-started-with-intro-to-programming/git-and-github)
* Via your terminmal, navigate to the directory you want to store my files in.
* Clone my git hub directory by typing or cutting pasting: "git clone https://github.com/pangtodd/volunteers_projects.git" into your terminal
* To run this program, you must have Ruby 2.6.5 installed on your machine. If you do not, you can follow these instructions: [Mac](https://www.learnhowtoprogram.com/ruby-and-rails-part-time/getting-started-with-ruby/installing-ruby-on-mac) or [PC](https://www.learnhowtoprogram.com/ruby-and-rails-part-time/getting-started-with-ruby/installing-ruby-on-windows).
* Once you have the project downloaded, navigate to the root of the project in your terminal and type "bundle".
* you will also need Postgres installed on your machine. If you do not, you can follow these [instructions.](https://www.learnhowtoprogram.com/ruby-and-rails-part-time/getting-started-with-ruby/installing-postgres) 
* You will also need to create a local database, using the sql backup file "database_backup.sql".
* Please note, this application was built with a Mac system. You may need to make adjustments (such as creating adding/hiding your Postgres password) if using a PC.
* make sure your database matches the name of the database used in the code.
* After your database is established, type "ruby app.rb" into your terminal. This should launch Sinatra.
* on a browswer, type in "localhost:5678"

## Known Bugs

* As of 5/21/22, no known bugs.
* If you notice other mistakes or bugs, please email pang.todd@gmail.com

## License

[MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
Copyright 2022 (c) Todd Pangilinan
